MANUAL for Scrap, the Extended 10DRL

This manual explains some things about the game mechanics that might
not be intuitively obvious but are useful to know. You should be able
to play the game without reading this manual, though.

Systems

The 'd' key allows you to view the exact details of your
systems. Pushing 'd' while another robot's systems are being displayed
on the right of the screen will display the details of those systems.

There are five types of systems: power sources, weapons, propulsion,
sensors, and armor. All systems of a single type behave in basically
the same way. A robot can have up to 8 systems equipped, and they can
be of any combination of types (with the restriction that the player
should always have at least one power source).

Power sources repair your damaged systems. If the power source itself
is damaged down to 50% or below, it will only be able to slowly
restore itself. When it comes back online, it will resume repairing
whatever system you think needs repair.  You can change which system
should be repaired by activating the power source (using one of the
1-8 keys that corresponds to a power source). Power sources have the
special property that when they are completely destroyed, the robot
explodes.

Weapons are used to attack opponents. The various weapons in the game
vary by the following four properties: their strength (which measures
the amount of damage they do), the type of damage, their range, and
the types of squares they can shoot past (see Terrain types
below). The type of damage determines what system is most likely to be
hit. Normal damage has an equal chance of damaging each system, but
special types of damage are more likely to damage systems of a
specific type. For example, a hunter's phaser rifle is more likely to
hit a robot's power source, and an ambusher's bazooka will be more
likely to hit their armor.

Propulsion allows robots to move. Most robots can still move even
without the aid of a propulsion system, but only at a very slow
rate. Propulsion systems have two properties: their speed, and the
types of terrain they can be used on.  For example, caterpillar tracks
(found first on tanks) have a low speed rating, but they do allow
movement on rough terrain ('!'); without them, you'd be stuck moving
at the very slow default speed for that type of terrain.

Sensors enable robots to see their surroundings. They are defined by two
properties: range and terrain types. You can use your sensors (1-8 key) to
look around and get descriptions of squares you can see or have seen, and
details about enemy robots.

Finally, armor reduces the amount of damage a robot receives when
hit. Their properties are armor strength, and (for some armors)
special resistances. If an armor system has a special resistance
against a certain damage type, its armor strength is doubled against
attacks of that damage type. A cyborg's cybernetic armor has a special
resistance against normal damage, which means that many weapons can't
effectively damage cyborgs. The phaser rifle and bazooka mentioned
earlier are more effective against cyborgs. Note that only the
strongest armor on your robot applies against the attack.

Some systems damage themselves when used. For these systems, it can be
useful to switch them off while you don't need them. This is done
using the 's' key.  A system's name will be greyed out while it is
deactivated.

You can change which system corresponds to which of the 1-8 keys with
'r'. This does not consume game time.

Terrain types

Each square of the map has a terrain type, which you can tell by the
symbol. Two tiles with different colors but the same symbol are of the
same terrain type, so they affect your robot the same way.

Weapon, propulsion and sensor systems all have a list of terrains that
they function in. These are highlighted on the 'd'etails screen.

The terrain types are as follows:
. Floor - solid ground with open air above
: Indoors - like floor, but most flying robots can't lift off here
? Darkness - an indoor area that many sensors can't see through
! Rough - like floor, but generally more difficult to move around in
_ Chasm - can only be crossed by flying robots
- Shallow water - many land-based vehicles can still enter this
= Deep water - but land-based vehicles can't go here
~ Underwater - only submarines can enter such squares
* Obstacle - like a low wall that can be passed over by some systems
# Wall - used by indoor locations, so you can't fly over it
0 Metal wall - similar to wall, but for example X-rays can't pass this

Save & restore

You can save your current game with 'S' and restore it again at a
later time with 'R'. You can restore each saved game only once, then
the savefile is deleted. This is intentional: it is a feature of many
roguelike games. It encourages you to think carefully about how you
play, while avoiding boring situations where you play through the same
small bit of the game many times until you finally succeed in getting
past some obstacle.


